AIRELOOM.


CALIFORNIA DESIGN HANDMADE


Aireloom has been building luxury innerspring mattresses for over 82 years. Aireloom sets themselves apart from other manufacturers by using a patented engineered process that creates comfort and Durability.


Through a combination of old world craftmanship and innovative technology, Aireloom invented the patented "Aireloom Lift". Aireloom provides an unmatched sleep experience that provides superior support, fewer body impressions and consistent temperature control, all things you expect from a superior luxury brand.


“While other mattresses stay flat of sink in, only Aireloom has the patented Aireloom lift"


Comfort Test Center- Test Center products represent almost 70% of the sales volume and 63% of the unit volume at R&F


Equinox Ex Firm


Key Features-# 4


Tencel Fabric cover


13% gauge Firm individually wrapped coil


Extra Firm Copper infused celsion plus talalay latex


8lbs quilted cotton


5lb slow recovery memory foam


• Also available in Lux Firm # 2 seller


Capella M1 Plush Single micro coil


Key Features- # 3 seller


Tencel Fabric cover


15 gauge plush individually wrapped coil


Plush Copper infused celsion plus talalay latex


8lbs quilted cotton


19-gauge micro coil


5lb slow recovery memory foam


Pegasus M2 LT


Double micro coil


Key Features- # 1 seller


.


Tencel Fabric over


3.5 lb density graphite infused memory foam in the quilt.


15 gauge plush individually wrapped coil


2 layers of Plush Copper infused celsion plus talalay latex.


19-gauge micro coil


8lbs quilted cotton


19-gauge micro coil


Key comfort layers that are driving these purchase decisions in the Equinox, Capella, and Pegasus M2 LT


Copper Infused Celsion Plus Talalay Latex- offers enhanced temperature control, superior pressure relief, anti microbial properties that inhibit the growth of bacteria, mold & mildew. unique anti-inflammatory benefits and Oeko Tech certified. (Equinox, Capella, Andromeda, Pegasus LT,)


8 lbs. of quilted cotton- a quilted comfort layer for a truly natural luxurious feel and the ultimate in breathability. (Starts in the Equinox models, Capella M1 Plush, Andromeda M1, Pegasus LT.


Slow recovery memory foam- for deep down pressure relief and rich luxurious feel. (Found in the Equinox, Capella and Andromeda Firm M1 LT


Graphite Infused Memory Foam-sewn into the quilt for added pressure relief, temperature control, and acts as a filter for allergens and dust mites. (Found in the Pegasus LT,)


19 ga. Micro Coil- Micro coil comfort layer for added comfort and conformance. Used as a single layer in the Capella, and Andromeda LT, or a double layer in the Pegasus LT.


Tencel Stretch Knit cover- very soft to the touch, highly breathable, moisture wicking and allows the body to stay cool throughout the night. (Found on every bed)


About Copper Infused CelsionPLUS Talalay Latex


Copper infused Celsion Plus ventilated temperature regulating talalay latex helps the body maintain consistent body temperature throughout the night while experiencing the comfort, pressure relief, and health benefits of natural Talalay latex.


Copper Infused Celsion Plus Talalay process latex is 33% more pressure relieving than any other foam including gel-infused memory foam. It is ideal for people suffering from respiratory issues, and allergies as it repels mold and mildew and dust mites do not live in latex.


Copper offers enhanced temperature control and acts like a super conductive highway for heat transfer away from the body. Copper is also a natural anti inflamatant.


Copper infused Celsion Plus Talalay latex is 100% plant based with zero off gassing. It is Oeko-Tex certified with an N1 rating which means there are no harmful additives that will make you sick and considered baby safe.


Found in the Equinox, Capella, Andromeda LT, and Pegasus LT models


Features & Benefits


INCREASED DURABILITY


Buoyant support will not crush or flatten, varying densities are possible based on preference


MADE IN THE USA


Shelton, Connecticut


TEMPERATURE REGULATING


Superior breathability due to open cell structure, less tossing and turning throughout the night.


HYPOALLERGENIC, MOLD & MITE RESISTENT


PETROLEUM-FREE PROCESS No


harmful chemicals, plant based tapped from a rubber tree (natural)


OEKO-TEX CLASS 1


Certified baby-safe and has the strictest testing requirements for purity and limit values.


ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY


sustainable process, FSC certified.


100% NATURAL


responsibly sourced from the rubber tree


The modern Aireloom mattress was first introduced by the legendary third generation mattress patriarch King Karpen in the 1940's. All the style and craftsmanship of Hollywood's most romantic era was evident from the start with the Aireloom mattress. It redefined a handcrafted luxury mattress. Known for its quality, Aireloom soon became a favorite of the rich and famous from Presidents to Movie Stars. The story goes, when Ronald Reagan entered the White House, every bedroom was prepared with an Aireloom mattress. The Aireloom line was only carried by the finest furniture and department stores and exclusive home decorators would only place an Aireloom in their most discriminating client's bedroom.


For over 40 years, Aireloom reigned as the hallmark of bedding luxury. In 1990 Mr. Karpen passed away and the company was subsequently sold, halting the Aireloom legacy, but only temporarily.


Aireloom History


In 2004, the original Aireloom product designs wand trademarks were purchased by Earl S. Kluft. Mr. Kluft created the next generation of Aireloom luxury mattresses with designs that allow the sleeper optimum pressure relief, luxury and support. Kluft, a third-generation mattress patriarch, was the founder, former owner and original creator of the Chattam & Wells mattresses in 1996. In 2005, Earl Kluft is awarded the patent on the Aireloom Lift, our Hazleton PA plant opens, and Aireloom business grows to $50 Million dollars!


In 2014, The Flex Group (established 1912) purchases E.S. Kluft. Kluft was the perfect fit for this 3rd generation, family-owned company. With hand crafted, luxury brands like Vi-Spring, the addition of Kluft simply made sense. Product offerings continue to expand, a 3rd plant was added in 2023, and the company is now the 13th largest with projected sales of over $165 Million!


A STRONG history of hand crafted and innovated product, from a family-owned company! Aireloom: Unique Hand Crafted - Family Owned!


Luxury bed maker E.S. Kluft doesn't lose sleep over its workers' slow pace


ES. Kluft's marketing director and self-described "mattress geek," at what he calls "probably the most inefficient factory in the United States. The company encourages its workers to slow down.


It's difficult to imagine a factory these days where workers are encouraged to take it easy, but that's the story at E.S. Kiuft Co., one of the world's top luxury bedding brands, where handcrafted mattresses take days to make and cost more than some luxury sedans.


"We like to say that we pay our people to slow down," chief executive of ES. Kluft, which creates some of the most exclusive sleeping surfaces on the planet under its Kluft and Aireloom brands. "Our mattresses will take two to two and a half times longer to make than the standard mattresses we compete with."


Kluft operates at the upper 15% of the mattress market price range, the "premium sleep" category, but it's not even close to being the most expensive of the lot. Swedish bedding firm company Hastens, for example, has mattresses that sell for 549,500 and more.


A top-of-the-line, handcrafted, king-size Kluft Beyond Luxury Palais Royal (with a choice of plush, firm or somewhere in between) costs about $36,200, according to Bloomingdale's website. By comparison, a BMW 3 Series sedan starts at $32,950 and a 2015 Audi A4 starts at $35,500.


ES. Kluft isn't bothered by the comparison.


"You might spend an hour in your car if you have a long commute, you'll spend a third of your life in bed.


"We are probably the most inefficient factory in the United States." Kluft, which was founded in 2004 but traces its roots to the creation of the Aireloom brand in 1949, has 200 employees spread equally between its Rancho Cucamonga and Pennsylvania manufacturing plants.


The U.S. mattress industry was hit hard by the recession, but Kluft avoided the collapse, executives said, in part because the company expanded sales outside California, finding customers in other parts of the nation willing to pay top dollar for a good night's sleep.


Revenue rose 20% last year and is expected this year to climb above 575 million, a record. Kluft competes at the upper end of the 57.5-billion-a-year mattress industry, in which sales of premium mattresses account for as much as 21% of sales.


New owners Flex Group of Spain, one of the world's largest bedding manufacturers, has plans for further expansion. The


company, which completed its purchase of ES. Kluft in March for an undisclosed sum, already owned one of Britain's oldest luxury bedding brands, Vi-Spring, which was founded in 1901.


Flex Group recently launched an advertising campaign to take the laid-back California vibe to overseas customers. One Aireloom ad features an ocean wave breaking into a perfect curl over a mattress, with the words "California Design Handmade."


"A lot of customers want American-made merchandise," officials said. "There is a cachet about it, a perception of higher quality"


Currently, Kluft's international business accounts for just 1% to 29 of sales, but the strategy is to make that a much more substantial part of the business. Kluft recently filled the new position of vice president of international sales


"We think in about two years it will be about 10% of our total sales, then 15% to 18% in the next five years, depending on how quickly we can grow. We're going to go all over. We think Asia is the biggest opportunity for us."


Kluft makes mattresses that are so comfortable that salespeople sometimes have to be trained to resist the urge to tell prospective buyers to please just finally get up and buy the darned things


Aireloom mattresses ended up in every White House bedroom during the Reagan administration. Others were bought by Frank Sinatra and Golden Age of Hollywood actress Rita Hayworth. Comedian Ellen Degeneres has a custom-designed Kluft


Sleeping wasn't always the point. In 1969, former Beatle John Lennon and wife Yoko Ono held one of their two weeklong anti-Vietnam War "Bed-In for Peace" events on an Aireloom mattress.


ES. Kluft will sell about 100,000 mattresses and foundations this year with about a dozen a month at the top end, taking as long as three days to make, largely by hand. Its less expensive brands, such as the Aireloom queen that starts at about $2,000, can be made in two to three hours.


The top of a high-end Kluft mattress might include a layer of Belgian spun Pima cotton jacquard, a special form of cotton that accounts for just 3% of all U.S. production. It is most often found in premium products because it can be woven into softer, finer and more luxurious fabrics. The jacquard weave describes a process in which the decorative design is incorporated into the weave rather than dyed on or printed


Next comes 10 pounds of cashmere, Angora goat mohair, silk and luxurious New Zealand wool, which wicks away moisture and cradles the sleeper. Other layers follow, including more biofoam shaped like a giant egg carton to provide air circulation. Layers of natural latex help ensure that one sleeper's movement isn't felt by the other. A layer of organic cotton felt is also used to help the mattress breathe


More expensive models can include horsehair, which also allows the mattress to breathe. The horsehair is hypoallergenic. repels nasty critters such as mites, helps the mattress feel springy and wicks away moisture, including nighttime sweat. h also won't compress like cheaper materials.


"It's a different kind of firming agent, not like foam, which is bouncing, or cotton, which is kind of a dead feel." "The horsehair has a curl to it that pushes back up. It's in the top three models of our Kluft's at Bloomingdale's"


The bottom of the bed has a bioform layer. On that sits as many as 2,000 individual coils used in the box springs, which are manufactured onsite. The string repeatedly wrapped around each coil to bind them together is Italian hemp rwine.


"When you look at the amount of handwork that is done, the fact that we don't use any inexpensive components, the fact that we produce our own bed springs, that is how the cost goes up. That's how you get a better night's sleep and a better product for retail,"


The process starts in two sections of the 105,000-square-foot Rancho Cucamonga factory. One is the sewing section, where covers, for example, are made. The other is the section where the individually wrapped coils for the bedsprings are made


The sewing alone can take up to two and a half hours, unlike traditional mattress manufacturing, which completes the sewing in as few as 30 minutes.


Chief Operating Officer said the company will never let a mattress go to market before its time.


“Quality is our No. 1 priority, even if it is a little less efficient, so be it.”


Sleep on an Aireloom... Join the ranks of celebrities


Frank Sinatra


Ernest Borgnine


Bob Hope


Rock Hudson


Ella Fitzgerald


Chris Sarandon


Aaron Spelling


Marilyn Horne


Bruce Willis


Mary Tyler Moore


Orson Wells


Matt Lauer


Elizabeth Taylor


James Garner


Stevie Nicks


Kelsey Grammer


Colin Farrell


Billy Joel


Martha Stewart


Cher


Carley Simon


Steve Martin


Dolly Parton


Leona Mitchell


Michael Douglas


Demi Moore


Mandy Patinkin


Billy Crystal


Marvin Hamlisch


Art Garfunkel


Matthew Perry


Wayne Newton


Mia Hamm


Simon Cowell


Gwen Verdon


Roberta Flack


Greg Kinnear


John Madden


Ronald / Nancy Reagan


Jack Nicholson


John & Yoko Lennon


Leroy Neiman


Rita Hayworth


Elke Sommer


Ralph Lauren


Paul Simon


Donald Sutherland


James Gandolfini


Ray Liotta


Paul McCartney