QUALITY & FASHION


HM Richards began in 1997 with one vision. To produce uphol- stered furniture that is high in quality, with the emphasis on val- ue. Since its start in Baldwyn, Mississippi the factory has grown to over 1,300,000 square feet and sells to only the leading retail- ers in the USA and Canada. HM Richards is vertically integrated which ensures quality control and speed to market.


Today HM Richards is one of the fastest growing upholstery com- panies in North America. HM Richards is very proud to say our entire product line is made in the USA.


(Note some components of our furniture are imported...mostly fabrics and exposed wood parts.)


Our goal is to produce the highest quality upholstery, utilizing distinctive design, manufacturing excellence, product durability and affordable pricing. There isn't another manufacturer in our price range that can give you a better product or value. As you sell our product you will have very few problems. That is because we believe in engineering and producing it right the first time. Our goal is to produce products with zero defects.


WE CONTINUE TO STRIVE FOR EXCELLENCE AND WE ARE CONFIDENTTHAT WE WILL EARN YOUR TRUST AND RESPECT.


2
WHO IS TODAY'S CUSTOMER?


Younger thinking customer, who is up to date on today's trends and fashions. They are not looking for the same furniture they grew up with.


Lifestyles are casual, the customer sits into their furniture relaxing with their newest electronics, doing work and eating in front of the TV.


Arranges the furniture to create unique comfortable areas and loves pieces that add versatility to the setting.


Lives a busy lifestyle and wants to see everything put together to make their decisions easy.


Likes to go outside the box with color and pattern but "comfort is king".


Not interested in keeping their furniture for an extended period of time. They will keep it until they are ready to upgrade. Quick thinkers and want to choose product and move on.
QUALITY CONSTRUCTION FROM START TO FINISH


THE FRAME


A SOLID FRAME makes a long-lasting product. HM Richards frames are con- structed with:


Kiln-dried hardwood and 3/4" hardwood laminate frames.


Stress joints are corner blocked, glued and stapled for strength.


Some joints are reinforced with mortise and tenon.


Additional hardwood pieces are added throughout the frame for extra support.


THE SELL


I like showing my customers HM Richards because:


"HM Richards builds their frames at the factory using kiln dried hardwoods and structural laminates. They also use Mortise & Tenon joints at stress points like backs, bases and arms.


WHY? Remember you need to sell the benefits:


"Customers who work with me appreciate this construction because they tend to drag their furniture by the arms and backs when moving it to vacuum or reconfigure the room" (Drag the chair to demonstrate)


4
THE SEATING & SUPPORT SYSTEM


8-gauge tempered and pre-arched metal wire sinuous springs.


Attached to the front and back rails using 16-guage Teflon coated clips.


Tightly spaced (5° on center) and cross-tied with tie wires in 2 locations.


These metal cross ties provide support and allow the system to move as one unit.


The sinuous springs are doubled up on the arms to prevent any roll off.


DISTINCT CUSHION CONSTRUCTIONS


SLAYER SEAT CUSHION


FEATHER PLUSH SEAT CUSHION


TUFTED SEAT CUSHION


UNDERSTAND THE DIFFERENCE


HM Richards 5 ply cushions are reversible and longer lasting than many other manufactures. Many competitor cushions contain only 2 or 3 layers and have no shape or definition. This gives them the appearance of looking flat or worn. Other cushions are one sided or attached with Velcro. These types of cushions cannot be turned or flipped, limiting the cushions' lifespan.


5 LAYER SEAT CUSHION


5-ply reversible seat cushion consisting of 1.8 lb/cu. ft. foam core, with an additional foam layer on top and bottom, wrapped with a 3 oz. densified polyester fiber layer for softness and comfort.


THE SELL


"Customers who work with me love the fact that HM Richards features a 5-layer seat cushion in many of their products. As you can see their cushions have a pronounced crown on both sides. (open the cushion) The 1.8 density core has foam panels attached to each side that are slightly recessed from the edge. These are called topper panels. They add comfort and help hold the welts in place over time. The panels are covered in a 3-ounce Dacron wrap on each side to provide the nice crown. Notice the seat deck is slightly recessed which holds the cushions in place. The proof is in the way the piece sits, please try it out."


"The cushions are removable for easy home cleaning and reversible to help extend their life. Why don't you sit in this and tell me what you think. Customers love the (elevator ride) it provides. Everyone gets a customized ride to their (comfort floor) as you sit through layers and activate the springs."


7
FEATHER BLEND CUSHION


FEATHER BLEND CUSHIONS also utilize a 5-layer cushion that offers extraordinary comfort and support by utilizing the resilient properties of feather blend fill that surround a 1.8 density polyurethane foam core with a memory foam topper. The Feather Blend wrap is filled with a blend of 50% non-allergenic fiber, 45% duck feathers and 5% duck down. To control feather migration, the internal casing is constructed of a tightly woven poly/cotton fabric. This casing prevents the down and duck feathers from poking through which is an important feature.


SOUND OF COMFORT:


When sitting into Feather Blend cushions and pillows, the feathers and fiber in the polyes- ter/cotton bag may make a rustling sound. Once you're comfortable, the sound disappears.


BENEFIT:


Each person's lounging comfort is customized by the Feather Blend layers as they activate them.


Relaxed Appearance / Luxurious Comfort


Featherblend™ Seat Cushion Construction


Foam core provides additional support where it is needed most


Fill envelope surrounds Inner loom core and provides luxurious comfort


Internal baffle construction prevents fill from shifting


180 thread count poly- cotton cover odds comfort and affectively retains


Featherblend comprised of feather and down softness and non-allergenic fiber for resiliency and loft
THE SELL


A different approach will help when selling this type of seating. Customers do not understand how (Feather Blend) seating benefits them, so try to queue them in advance. They may be confused by the loose tailoring and crunching sound when sitting on it.


"This is called Feather Blend seating. What you're about to feel and experience when you sit is called the Sound of Comfort of a Feather Blend seating system." (This way your customer knows in advance that this will sit, sound and feel differently from other cushions. As they sit in the group remove a seat cushion for your demonstration. Take the cushion and put it on end so they can see how thick the cushion is. Unzip it and explain the system.)


"Inside this cushion is a channeled down proof tick casing. It prevents the down and ducknfeathers from poking through which is an important feature" (Unzip the white bag and show the blend. Explain that the bags are on both sids of the cores. Rub the bag with your hands so they can hear the sound of it.)


"When sitting into the cushion the fabric, foam, bag, air, feathers and Dacron react to your body type. Once comfortable the sound goes away. Customers love the customized comfort that a Feather Blend seating system offers them, it conforms to their body."


Now the customer understands what and why of the Feather Blend seating system. You have presented the product and the benefits.


8
TUFTED CUSHION


TUFTED SEATING, STYLE WITH COMFORT.


TUFTED CUSHION without buttons, gives the product eye and design appeal. However, it requires a different cushion construction. Because of the "tufted" design, the seat cushions cannot be rotated as the bot- tom side of the cushion is not tufted. Therefore HM Richards uses a 3 layer cushion, comprised entirely of HR foam (high resiliency).


Each layer is a different density, making sure that we retain the "elevator ride" that is so important in all of our seating systems.


HM Richards creates this look by sewing individual fabric panels to- gether. Each panel is "triple stitched" to ensure the seam is durable and will remain intact for the life of the upholstered piece. A tuft is found at each point where the 4 fabric panels meet. Cleats are attached and pulled through to the opposite side of the cushion core, then secured with a washer. This washer is placed behind a tear proof barrier and pulled tight to create the tufts. The tear proof barrier ensures that the washer will not pull through the cushion core, it ensures that the tufts will look beautiful for the life of the upholstered piece.


Back cushions can also have tufting. The fabric panels are sewn togeth- er in the same manner as the seat cushions. However, because they need to be softer and they receive less pressure (weight) than a seat cushion, they do not require the HR foam cores. Instead, an inner bag is filled with Dacron, and then the cleat is pulled through the bag and at- tached with a washer. No tear proof barrier is needed here.


HM Richards tufting is done without buttons because many customers feel that buttons are uncomfortable to sit on, they collect dirt, and they become loose overtime.


"This collection features tufting without buttons. Customers I work with love the biscuit like design it creates. This manufacturer sews each of the individual squares together. They then pull a cord down through the foam core and secure it with a washer against a tear proof bearer This compresses the high resiliency foam layers and offers you a firmer, yet softer sit than other product on the floor. Please take a seat and let me know how it feels. The cushions are removable for easy home maintenance"


9
IT'S ALL IN THE TAILORING DETAILS


PADDING-360 DEGREE TAILORING


To further add quality and beauty to our product, all of HM Richards frames are padded on ALL exterior wood frame components, this includes anything that the hand can touch. This ensures better tailoring, extends the life of the fabrics, and provides more comfort. It also makes the wood frame invisible to the eye,


thus allowing your customer to float our furniture anywhere in his or her room.


PADDING BENEFITS: ALLOWS BETTER TAILORING MORE COMFORT INCREASES FABRIC LIFE
THE LAYERS OF TAILORING


Seams stitching sewn with 7 stitches per inch provides crispness and seam strength.


Skirts, where used, are lined for a straight hang.


Fabric patterns have a "four-way match" both horizontally and vertically.


360 degree fully padded frames consisting of fiberboard, foam and then fabric.


Contour cut polyurethane top arm pads provide both comfort and uniform arm shape.
THE SELL
"HM Richards does a great job with sewing and applying welt cords to their product. One of the things that stands out on each piece is how crisp and clean looking everything is. Patterns are centered and balanced. They match up their stripes and offer completely sewn and lined skirts with Pellon inserts. Patterns are centered and balanced. This requires a lot of craftsmanship and precision."


(The fact that HM Richards applies welts along the base is not necessarily why a customer buys our product, but the fact that one takes the time to point it out makes a big difference.)




"Customers who work with me appreciate that HM Richards applies 3 layers around the frame. Fiberboard, foam, and then fabric. (Tap your hand on the back or side to demonstrate) This allows my customers to place the furniture away from the walls and have it look attractive from all angles."


10


UPHOLSTERY FABRICS


MICROFIBER SUEDE SO SOFT: 100% POLYESTER TIGHTLY WOVEN, CONSTRUCTION, DURABLE, HIGHLY BREATHEABLE


SUGAR SHACK: 100% POLYPROPYLENE BASKET WEAVE PATTERN, TEXTURED, HIGH-PERFORMANCE


SANTA ROSA: 100% POLYESTER FLAT WOVEN WITH PADDED BACKING, RICH COLOR


ELLIOT: 100% POLYESTER WOVEN CHENILLE, SOFT HAND, VIBRANT COLOR
THE SELL
"Some of the microfibers in the marketplace have very noticeable napping and shading properties that results in highs and lows in the coloration. These less expensive microfibers do not have an applied backing, resulting in unattractive wrinkling on the surface."


HM Richards chooses to use a much more expensive microfiber with a different construction. Their microfiber is 100% polyester and contains additional filaments within each cable. Like thread counts in sheets, the higher the thread count the better. Would you rather have 180 thread count sheets or 1000 thread count sheets? They then apply a cotton backing to the fabric to give it structure and allow the fabric to breath. The reason they chose to use this type of microfiber is because they prefer a tighter, tailored, clean look with minimal napping and no color variations. 11




HM RICHARDS SLEEPER STORY


HM Richards sleepers offer 2 options. A 5 inch mattress from Sleeper Kraft, a unbranded high quality supplier that features plush quilting on both sides with a Bonnell inner spring unit with a coil height of 3 3/4". These coils are 13.5 Gauge, and the Queen sleeper has 299 coils. These coils are covered top and bottom with a Urethane Foam layer and a synthetic Pad. The Quilted damask to the eye.


cover is a Polyester ticking that is pleasing We also offer our premium memory foam/gel mattress shown below for improvecomfort. We assemble our Leggett & Platt mechanism in house. The 4.5" mattress is constructed 2.5" H/D polyurethane foam core topped with a 1.5" gel memory foam layer. This layered foam core is then encased in a zippered woven cover that is channeled stitched with an additional ½ inch of memory foam inside it.


The adjustable head rest is a great feature to point out


More choice with sectionals


"Sectionals from HM Richards offer many options. The classic "L" configuration works for many rooms and fills the comer. The option of using the 3-piece cuddler configuration maximizes seating and wall space as people can sit across the group, and functions as a home thearter."


THE SELL


If these two configurations are not workable for your room, HM Richards offers additional options in pieces to help create a workable room setting.


Great to note that HM Richards sectionals pieces have finished sides. "This allows you to float pieces and add tables for snacks and drinks during the game. Let me show you" (move a plece to show them the finished sides)


"This offers you lots of flexibility. Also remember that you can buy the chaise as a separate piece to float in the room. When necessary, you can then grab it and insert into the sectional. If the space is difficult to access, we can look at using armless pieces and corners to customize the room. All the pieces ship with rubber pads to protect your floors and can be attached using connectors that are supplied with every item."


Sectionals allow customers to have options. They can act as room dividers as well as flexible seating layouts. HM Richards offers a number of styles and applications. One of the great characteristics of our sectionals is that they include finished ends. This allows our customers to separate the pieces and perhaps use them in different areas of the same room, or in other rooms entirely.


The possibilities are endless with fully finished pieces!


THE SELL


'The ottoman can be used for your feet or for the kids as an PS-4,X-BOX 360 gaming ottoman." Calling the ottoman, a gaming ottoman shows that you understand the customers lifestyle.


"Once the party is over, slide the tables out and push the pieces back together again. This modularity also allows customers to purchase pieces ala carte. They may not have room for the complete set but would buy 2 chaises that could be pushed together or separate


13
SECTIONAL CONNECTORS THE NEW PROPRIETARY LOCKING PLATE SYSTEM


3


WASHER


4


PART B (MALE)


PART A (FEMALE)


ON THE BOTTOM OF FURNITURE. ATTACH PART A CONNECTOR BY SCREWING WING-NUT BOLT AND WASHER INTO THE APPROPRIATE SLOT/HOLE.


REPEAT WITH PART B CONNECTOR ON THE ADJOINING PIECE OF FURNITURE.


2


WING BOLT


NOTE: REMOVE BACK PILLOWS AND SEAT CUSHIONS BEFORE INSTALLING CONNECTORS.


PARTS


PART A


1


PART B-


PART B


PART A


INSERT PART A INTO LARGE SLOT IN PART B.


(SEE FIGURE TO RIGHT)


402 CONNECTOR ASMLY


ITEM NO.


2


3


4


DESCRIPTION


WASHER


WINGBOLT


MAKE PART B


14


PART A


ON ALL SECTIONAL PIECE PLACE PART A ON THE LEFT SIDE AND PLACE PART B ON THE RIGHT SIDE


QTY


2


2


FEMALE PART A 1


ALLIGATOR CLIPS


All sectionals without decorative wood bases come with connectors. We have a standard alligator clip system that attaches underneath the piece and is invisible to the eye when not being used. They are connected under the frame by your installers. This system will be phasing our and replaced with the new plate system.


WOOD BASES


Wood screws


Machine thread bolts into metal inserts


Wood screws


Tongue and groove


HM Richards prides ourselves on the construction of our durable wood base product. All our wood base pieces include a tongue & groove metal hinge connection. This prevents joints from separating. Our wood bases continue on all 4 sides of the frame. This allows all pieces to "float" in the room setting and makes each piece visually attractive from all angles.


FOR MORE INFORMATION: HMRICHARDS.COM


TIM QUIRK-TQUIRK@HMRICHARDS.COM/414-687-5049


MARK BURNS-MBURNS@HMRICHARDS.COM/262-384-1255


15
CUSHIONS AND FOAM PADDING


5-PLY reversible seat cushion consisting of 1.8 lb./cu.ft.foam core,


low melt foam layer on top and bottom, wrapped with a 3 oz.


densified polyester fiber layer for softness and superior comfort


Luxurious non-allergenic fiber fills the inner bags that are within our back, bolster and decorative pillows


360 degree fully padded frames consisting of 3 layers of fiberboard, foam and then fabric


Contour cut polyurethane top arm pads provide


both comfort and uniform arm shape


Tailoring


Our attention to tailoring details is a hallmark of our designs


Our experienced craftsmen are among the industry's best


Precision stitching sewn with 7 stitches per inch ensures crispness and seam strength


Skirts, where used, are pelon-lined to ensure a straight hang


Fabric patterns have a "four-way match" both horizontally


and vertically for optimal balance


FRAMES
Kiln-dried Hardwood and ¼" hardwood laminate frames


All stress joints are corner blocked, glued and stapled for superior strength


Some joints are reinforced with mortise and tenon where needed


Additional hardwood pieces are added throughout the frame for extra support and stability


.
SPRINGS


8-gauge tempered and pre-arched metal wire sinuous springs


Attached to the front and back rails using 16-gauge Teflon coated clip


Tightly spaced (5" on center) and cross-tied with tie wires in 2 locations


These metal cross ties provide greater lateral support and stability


and allows the system to move as one unit


The sinuous springs are doubled up on the arms to prevent roll off


Caruso by HM Richards


Collection Pieces:


Sofa


Loveseat


Sofa Sleeper


Chair 1/2


Large Ottoman


Swivel Accent Chair


Color Options: Stocked in Camila Indigo


Special Order Options: Available in all 32 HM


Richards Wall Fabrics


(Camila Indigo will not be available as a special order fabric on other frames)


Seating: FlexMat:tempered steel grid attached to the frame with small springs. The springs prevent you from feeling the frame were the grid attaches. The FlexMat steel grid provides uniform comfort for each person on the furniture. Pirelli straps are used to the sides stabilizing the suspension. This system allows for sleek design options where a sinuous spring system would not fit and was developed and used in the auto industry.


Construction:


Foam Reversible Seat Cushions


Kiln-dried hardwood frame and ¼ structural


engineered 7-layer laminates


Interlocking Mortise & Tenon joints and corner blocked


Fabric: Chenille - 100% polyester


Modular One Bluetooth Operation


Hold this button down to turn volume up.


Maximum volume is achieved when you hear a "beep". Volume can then be adjusted by using your connected device or by using the console volume buttons.


A "short" tap will advance to the next song if you are listening to music.


Hold this button down to turn volume down, or use your device to adjust volume.


A "short" tap will move to the previous song if listening to music.


Blue tooth icon


On off button


When you power up the first console, the blue tooth icon should be blinking slowly. If not, it is connected to another device. Press down the "Bluetooth" button until you hear "Wait for pairing". You have just disconnected the console from any previous devices. Best practice is to press down on the "Bluetooth" icon on every console to clear them all before starting the demonstration.


Once you know the console(s) are not connected to any other device, go to settings on your phone - Turn on Bluetooth - Look for "Power Audio Dock" - Select it. (If you have more than one power console on the floor powered on, you will see multiple "Power Audio Dock's" displayed.) Once you are connected, go to a playlist of music.


To pair consoles, fast tap the Bluetooth icon on the primary console so that it is blinking fast. Go to your next console and fast tap the Bluetooth icon so that it is blinking fast. A few seconds later, you will then hear "Broadcast Connected" and both consoles will be playing music. You can do this to as many consoles that are in the room (unlimited pairings).


After finishing your presentation, go back to each console and hold the Bluetooth icon down until you hear "Wait for Pairing" to erase your connection. Another Best Practice is to go to your Bluetooth settings and select "Forget the Device" to make sure all connections are erased.